# Iterable and Iterators
## Iterable
- In Python an iterable is an object which can be looped over its member elements using a for loop.
- Example: lists, strings and tuples. They support efficient access via indexing. The __getitem()__ can be invoked to return a member at the specified index. They also return their lengths via the __length()__ method.
- Dictionaries, sets, file objects and generators aren't indexable but are iterable.
- In order to qualify as an iterable, an object must define one of the two methods:

	 ✔__iter__()  

	 ✔__getitem__()
  
  - Container objects need to define the __iter__() method to support iteration. 
  - The __iter__() method returns an iterator for the object. Using the iterator we can sequentially access the elements of an iterable object.

## Iterator
- Iterator is an object which can be used to sequentially access the elements of an Iterable object.
- The main advantage of using the iterators is that the program is only holding one object at a time from a sequence or a collection.
- An iterator must support the following methods:

  ✔__iter__()

  ✔__next__()
  
  ## Example:
  ```python
  if __name__ == "__main__":
    lstOfInts = list()
    lstOfInts.append(1)
    lstOfInts.append(2)
    lstOfInts.append(3)

    # get iterator of list using __iter__()
    it = lstOfInts.__iter__()
    print("iterator of list: " + str(it))

    # get member element of list using __getitem__()
    print("iterator of list: " + str(lstOfInts.__getitem__(2)))

    # iterator returns itself when passed to the iter function
    print("it is iter(it) = " + str(it is iter(it)))

    # get another iterator for list using the built in iter() method
    it_another = iter(lstOfInts)
    print("it_another = " + str(it_another))

    print("iteration using iterator in a for loop")
    # iterate using the iterator
    for element in it_another:
        print(element)

    print("iteration using iterable in a for loop")
    # iterate using the iterable
    for element in lstOfInts:
        print(element)
  ```

## Summary: 

So we have 3 things here —

a) object referring to a collection of items ,

b) a pointer object and lastly

c) a method to move the pointer object from one item to the next one in the collection

In Python terms — the collection of items is often referred to as “something that is Iterable” — so Iterable is an object, which one can iterate over.

The pointer object is called iterator . An Iterable can be used to generate an Iterator when passed to iter() method.

And lastly there is an operation on the iterator saying “move to next”. In other words, Iterator object is used to iterate over an iterable object using __next__() method.

So a Iterator object must have these two instance methods (behavior in case of a real life object)

1. __iter__ method which does nothing but returns itself

2. __next__ method which returns the next element in the series or collection, essentially moving the pointer to the next element

